What's New 109 (#2377)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/experimental-features/index.md

Status:
*  This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 111.
*  This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Stable 108.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Disable the deprecated 'Color format' setting (requires reloading DevTools)

_new as of Microsoft Edge 110_

Disables the deprecated **Color format**<!-- string not found by FTS --> setting.

> <!-- todo: where in UI? -->

Author: @captainbrosset - any clarification?

Reviewer: This is related to the Color format preference (pictured below). This preference used to be available for users to choose what color format they preferred to see in the Styles pane by default. So, for example, if the CSS code specified `color: red;` but the user had set the `hex` color format as their preference, then they would see `color: #f00;` in the Styles pane instead.

Recently, CSS has gained new color formats that can be used to describe colors in color spaces that weren't available before.
This auto-switch of the color format can't work anymore, because if the source code contains a color in a new color space, then it isn't always possible to convert this color in one of the older color formats because the color spaces simply don't match 1 to 1.

It seems like this experiment was added just as a "grace" period. It's on by default, and its effect is to grey out the color format dropdown in the Preferences pane. After a while, the experiment will disappear, and the color format preference will disappear too.
For now, it's still there, for a short while, so people can still disable the experiment and regain control of the color format preference.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1152698/211495284-c752f421-93e4-4fa9-ae1e-964a7cdeb57a.png)

Author: added text, probably not screenshot.

Controls whether to replay input events on the Timeline.

Status:
*  This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 111.
*  This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Stable 108.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## View console.profile() results in the Performance panel for Node.js

_new as of v109_

Displays `console.profile()` results in the **Performance** tool for Node.js.

> <!-- todo: clarify -->

Author: @captainbrosset - any clarification? "View console.profile() results in the Performance panel for Node.js"

Reviewer: I don't know anything about this, and reading the associated source code wasn't particularly helpful. We'll need to ask someone who works on the DevTools code to know for sure.

What I can tell is this:

`console.profile()` can be used in the console (or in your code) to start a JavaScript profile, and then you can use `console.profileEnd()` to terminate it. Once done, you can see your profile recording in the **JavaScript Profiler** tool.
This is a programmatic way to record JavaScript execution, which can be useful in certain perf debugging situations.

I don't think this has any relationship with the **Performance** tool though, that's confusing.

The other thing is that DevTools can optionally be used to debug processes running in Node.js. You need to start node in a special way so it exposes debugging info on a port. And then you can start DevTools from edge://inspect, to target that port.

So, presumably, this experiment makes whatever `console.profile` generates available to the **Performance** tool, also when DevTools is connected to Node.js.

Author: added text

Controls whether to replay input events on the Timeline.

Status:
*  This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 111.
*  This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Stable 108.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## View console.profile() results in the Performance panel for Node.js

_new as of v109_

Displays `console.profile()` results in the **Performance** tool for Node.js.

`console.profile()` can be used in the DevTools **Console** (or in your code) to start a JavaScript profile, and then you can use `console.profileEnd()` to terminate it.  Once done, you can see your profile recording in the **JavaScript Profiler** tool.

This is a programmatic way to record JavaScript execution, which can be useful in certain performance debugging situations.

> Also, DevTools can optionally be used to debug processes that are running in Node.js.  You need to start Node.js in a special way so that it exposes debugging info on a port.  Then you can start DevTools from `edge://inspect`, to target that port.

Reviewer: Needs to be rephrased. We should either explain how to debug Node.js entirely, or not say anything at all. I would lean towards the latter and rephrase: "When DevTools is used to debug processes that are running in Node.js", and then link it to the next paragraph:

"When DevTools is used to debug processes that are running in Node.js this experiment makes what `console.profile` generates available to the **Performance** Tool."

Author: replaced above and below para by:
When DevTools is used to debug processes that are running in Node.js, this experiment makes whatever `console.profile` generates available to the **Performance** Tool.

* [Pause code with breakpoints](../javascript/breakpoints.md)

Status:
*  This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 111.
*  This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Stable 108.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Enable Preloading Status Panel in Application panel

_new as of Microsoft Edge 110_

Adds the **Preloading** section within the **Application** tool.  The **Preloading** section of the list of pages contains a **Prefetching & Prerendering** page, which contains columns:
* **Started at**
* **Type**
* **Trigger**
* **URL**
* **Status**

Select an element for more details.

> <!-- todo: how select element, where? -->

Author: @captainbrosset - any clarification?  Enable Preloading Status Panel in Application panel

GitHub rendered section has picture:
https://github.com/mikehoffms/edge-developer/blob/user/mikehoffms/whats-new-109/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/experimental-features/index.md#enable-preloading-status-panel-in-application-panel

Reviewer: This is related to this new feature: https://developer.chrome.com/blog/prerender-pages/
In summary, in certain cases (either when the browser decides, or if the page uses a special API), the next page that the user will visit is pre-rendered in the background, in order to speed up page navigation.

This new panel will eventually (I think it's still too early to be able to fully use it) display the list of pages that got pre-rendered by the browser and why. This way, developers can debug their code that uses this new pre-render special API.

Author: added text

* [Pause code with breakpoints](../javascript/breakpoints.md)

Status:
*  This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 111.
*  This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Stable 108.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Enable Preloading Status Panel in Application panel

_new as of Microsoft Edge 110_

> This checkbox is related to a new feature: pre-rendering pages for instant page navigations.  In certain cases (either when the browser decides, or if the page uses a special API), the next page that the user will visit is pre-rendered in the background, in order to speed up page navigation.
> 
> This new panel will eventually display the list of pages that got pre-rendered by the browser and why.  This way, you can debug your code that uses this new pre-render special API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In certain situations, for example when using the Speculation Rules API, Microsoft Edge prefetches and prerenders the next page a user will visit to display that page faster.

This experiment enables the **Prefetching & Prerendering** section in the **Application** Tool. The new section displays the list of pages that the browser prefetched and prerendered and why, which gives you a way to debug your code.

To learn more about prerendering pages, see [Prerender pages in Chrome for instant page navigations](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/prerender-pages/).
```

That being said, I have to check if the prerender API is enabled in Microsoft Edge too.

Author: replaced the two paras by comment's text.  
deleted See Also same as "To learn more", tho See Also provides nice uniformity
